



* From: "Mark R. Lindsey" <lindsey@acm.org>
* Date: Mon, 11 Sep 2006 11:51:54 -0400
* Cc: "SAGE mailing list" <sage-members@sage.org>, "LOPSA Discuss List" <discuss@lopsa.org>
* In-Reply-To: <bb075cdf0609102037o7016a31ai3126d81f13f27490@mail.gmail.com>

> Anyone know of a service that can provide phone number to provider
> mappings? say for example if I submit the number 555-555-5555 t would
> let me know that Cingular is the carrier for that number.
>
> I have an little idea where this could be very useful and was
> wondering if anyone know of such a service thanks.


The other guys have mentioned a few good ideas, and brought up number  
portability. There's a way to get there from here.

In the NANPA region, Telcordia maintains the "BIRDS" database (I may  
have that spelled wrong); it maintains the list of NPANXX's (i.e.,  
the first six digits of NANPA telephone numbers) and the associated  
carrier codes. Each of those NPANXX's has a sort of "home carrier",  
but that home carrier might only have one or two numbers out of the  
entire block. This database is published in a few forms, including  
the LERG and NNACL. Telephone companies have to buy these; you can  
get started somewhere around $1500/year, I think.

A lot of the free sources are hacks off of this real data. They're  
less accurate. The data in the Telcordia database *controls*  
telephone call routing; the other sources just try to mirror the  
routing databases. There's also CCMI, who makes data of a good  
quality, and competes with Telcordia.

One of those numbers within an NPANXX is the LRN -- Local Routing  
Number. Usually the LRN will be the "1000" number within the block;  
e.g., 404-446-1000 might be an LRN. From the LRN, you can find the  
OCN -- the Operating Company Number. The OCN can be dereferenced to  
an actual carrier name and address.

When you place a telephone call to a number that may be ported, your  
telephone switch does an SS7 LNP (Local Number Portability) "database  
dip" to find the LRN of the home switch. If there's an LRN, it needs  
to route the call "as if" the LRN were the real called-party number.  
It does "global title translation"  (GTT) to put in the LRN in the  
called-party-number, and routes as usual. When it reaches the final  
switch where the user is "homed", it does GTT to translate the number  
back, and delivers the call.

If there was no LRN, then it can route the call according to the  
standard tables, like the LERG.

If you want to know which carrier actually has a specific telephone  
number, you'd first do an SS7 dip to get the LRN; if there's no LRN,  
the number's not ported, and you can use one of the simple sources,  
like the LERG directly. From there you can get the OCN, and the  
company name.

If you get an LRN, then lookup the owner of the LRN in the LERG; from  
there, you can get the OCN, and the company name.

To do this, you need a way to do SS7 dips. That ain't cheap, although  
I think you can probably get it via SIGTRAN or SIP-T via the Internet  
from Telcordia or a high-end SS7 database provider. You're probably  
talking at least $2k/month for an SS7 database provider connectivity.  
Plus, each SS7 dip costs money on top of that -- typically well under  
$0.01.

Mark


